Short stories about love
Gone Love
Katya Ivanova
© Katya Ivanova, 2015

Gone is the love
The first story
The beginning of autumn. The tops of the trees are covered with light gilding, lonely yellowed leaves fall.
The grass has dried up, yellowed over the summer from the sun's scorching rays. Early morning.
Sergei Mikhailovich was walking leisurely along the path of the public garden, heading for the streetcar stop.
He hadn't ridden public transportation for a long time, he used his car to get to work,
and here... he'd rented his car to an auto repair shop for a routine checkup for three days, and it happened to be on a workday.
"Today is my ex-wife's birthday, I should congratulate her, drop by after work and drop off a bouquet of chrysanthemums,
she loves them," he caught himself thinking "ex-wife," even though she had left him two months ago. In that time he had not seen her,
only heard her voice in the telephone receiver. It was interesting to see how she looked: younger? Or maybe she'd come back to their
spacious apartment, baking pancakes and making coffee, her specialty, in the morning.
They had lived together for more than thirty years, thirty-three to be exact.
And then out of the blue, so it seemed to him, the beloved woman said she was going to live in another apartment,
away from him... A small apartment they rented. It used to be meant for my youngest son, he went to another city to study,
then he stayed there and got married. The older son had long lived with his family in a spacious cottage on the outskirts of town, raising three children.
"I'm tired of your 'whining,' tired of serving and caring for you, of listening to your discontent.
I want to live at least in my old age for myself, in peace," my wife said as she gathered her things.
Recently retired, Galina did not sit at home, engaged in networking business, she enrolled in a fitness center,
began to pay more attention to their appearance and health.
"That's it, I'm a free person now, and I want to live the rest of the years for myself.
I gave many years to my children, to you-your whims, laundry, cleaning, and your other whims.
I helped raise my grandchildren. Now I have a pension, have extra income, and I do not depend on you financially,
and your prohibitions do not concern me. Where I want, I go on vacation, where I want, and where I go on Sunday.
I'm going," - slammed the door, his wife said loudly, leaving her husband in puzzlement.
The necessary streetcar came up. Sergei Mikhailovich squeezed himself in. It's early morning,
the townspeople are rushing to work. It takes him four stops to get to his office, a large transportation company,
where he has worked as a safety engineer for many years.
The pungent scent of women's perfume wafted up his nose.
- Man, don't huddle close to me," the young woman said, turning around and looking into his eyes, smiling sweetly.
- Excuse me.
"Don't forget to stop by Galina's house tonight with flowers, maybe she's already played loose and will come home.
" In the morning he called her and congratulated her on her birthday. The wife listened silently and hung up.
- Man, you are "stuck" to me, - said the same woman.
- Sorry. There are a lot of people.
- Then I'll turn to you, - said a pleasant voice stranger turned her face to Sergei and began to look into his eyes.
He began to consider the young woman: she looked about thirty to thirty-five, a good figure, a beige cap hid her hair,
bright red plump lips attracted his gaze.
"Nice face, and eyes shining with happiness. Sharp smell of perfume, could have put it on less," thought Sergei Mikhailovich.
- My stop. I'm getting out," he said quietly.
The woman took a step to the side, letting him go forward:
- And I still have two more stops to go," she said, as if in passing.
At the end of the day Sergei Mikhailovich called a cab: "Stop at a flower store,
buy a bouquet of flowers and visit his wife - to wish her happy birthday" - thought the abandoned husband.
He was already standing near the front door of the apartment with a bouquet of large yellow chrysanthemums.
The doorbell rings.
- It's open - he hears a familiar voice.
A man enters quietly. Silence.
- Well, who is it? Come into the room. I am here.
Sergey came in. In the middle of the room stood a large open suitcase. Galina, dressed in a new tracksuit, was bustling around it - folding things.
- Good evening, I came to congratulate you.
- You called this morning, didn't you? - Without looking back at him, his wife said. - You did not have to worry.
And how did you remember that? When we lived together, you rarely remembered, you kept waiting for me to remind you.
Oh, yellow chrysanthemums? Don't you forget that I love them? - The woman looked at the bouquet and was surprised.
- Where are you going? Where are the guests? Not celebrating your birthday?
- Tomorrow we will celebrate. I'm going to Montenegro for a month. I'm going to live in Europe. They're waiting for me there. I have a plane to catch soon.
- Where the hell are you going? What about me, the kids, the grandkids?
- What about you? The children are adults, the grandchildren have parents. The kids congratulated me on the phone, they know I'm leaving for a month.
- I thought you were coming home. Thought you'd miss me...
- I told you I would never, ever live with you. Enough - thirty years as a servant